Main Narrative
=======

The video, titled "Message to America", was uploaded to YouTube on August 19th. Despite it's immediate removal, copies and screenshots of the video spread across the web. Twitter actively removed all photos. LiveLeak, known for violent and disturbing content, wiped the video from its site.

The following day, the United States National Security Council confirmed the authenticity of the video.

From a podium at the Edgartown School in Martha's Vineyard, President Obama condemned the act and vowed justice.

"The United States of America will continue to do what we must do to protect our people.  We will be vigilant and we will be relentless.  When people harm Americans, anywhere, we do what’s necessary to see that justice is done."

[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VPl5qu_eAaQ)


Foley
======

James Wright Foley
------

Curiosity about the reality of places like Iraq, where his brother was serving as an officer in the US air force, led James Foley to embed himself with US troops there.

He had been a teacher in Arizona, Massachusetts, and Chicago before switching to journalism in the mid-2000s.

In 2011, he went to Libya to cover the uprising against Col Muammar Gaddafi, embedding himself with rebel fighters.

"The idea with the Libyan revolution is, it's journalists embedding with rebels, and that's essentially what we did," he recalled.


Abdel
=======

Abdel-Majed Badel Bary
------

Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary is one of six children of Adel Abdul Bary, an Egyptian militant who is facing terrorism charges in connection with Al Qaeda’s twin 1998 bombings at the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 224 people.

After spending years in and out of Egyptian prisons, subjected to torture, the elder Bary and his wife, Ragaa, were granted political asylum in Britain in 1993. He was arrested for the bombings in 1998 and was extradited to the United States in 2012 after a protracted legal battle.

The younger Bary rapped under the name L. Jinny or Lyricist Jinn Matic, and his songs had been featured on the BBC’s Radio 1 Extra, media outlets reported. In one freestyle rap posted on his Facebook page, he talks about being addicted to alcohol and crack. But he also speaks of his venom toward the West.

[YouTube or something of him rapping?]

“The day when they came and took my dad, I could have killed a cop or two when I went to look back,” he rapped. “Imagine then I was only 6, picture what I’d do now with a loaded stick.”


Foley
=====
In April 2011, Mr Foley and three other journalists were ambushed by Gaddafi's forces.

"A soldier's pressing your face into the bed of a truck, bleeding from the scalp - it's the worst kind of shock," Mr Foley said afterwards.

For 18 days, nobody knew whether he was still alive.

His parents, Diane and John Foley, campaigned for his release, holding prayer vigils and working with US and Syrian diplomatic teams to gather information.

After six weeks, Mr Foley was released. But the death of Anton Hammerl, his friend and colleague, had a profound impact on him.

"I'll regret that day for the rest of my life. I'll regret what happened to Anton," he said. "I will constantly analyse that."

His experience of being captured did not deter him.

"It doesn't always repel you. Sometimes... it draws you closer. Feeling like you've survived something - it's a strange sort of force that you are drawn back to," he said.

Following his ordeal, he was eager to cover the situation in Syria, saying he was "drawn to the drama of the conflict and trying to expose untold stories."

[Something about ]


Abdel
========
The younger Bary rapped under the name L. Jinny or Lyricist Jinn Matic, and his songs had been featured on the BBC’s Radio 1 Extra, media outlets reported. In one freestyle rap posted on his Facebook page, he talks about being addicted to alcohol and crack. But he also speaks of his venom toward the West.

“The day when they came and took my dad, I could have killed a cop or two when I went to look back,” he rapped. “Imagine then I was only 6, picture what I’d do now with a loaded stick.”

2012 - The suspect's father, Adel Abdul Bary, was extradited in 2012 from the United Kingdom to the United States to face charges that he participated in al-Qaeda's 1998 attacks on two U.S. embassies in east Africa.

In July 2013, he posted on Facebook, “The Unknown mixtape with my bro tabanacle will be the last music I’m ever releasing. I have left everything for the sake of Allah.” Bary left his family’s $1-million-plus home west of London last year to fight with the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.


Foley
=======
In April 2011, Mr Foley and three other journalists were ambushed by Gaddafi's forces.


Abdel
========
Catpured, tortured, joins ISIS


Main Narrative
=========
In English with what sounds like a British accent says that “the life of this American citizen, Obama, depends on your next decision.”

August 22, 2014 - Video release of Abdul decapitating  ISIS, Foley has a statement from ISIS that says if demands are not met Sotloff will also be executed.

August 4 - Steven Sotloff captured by pro-Assad forces

Late August 2014 - Sunday Times reports British Intelligence MI6 has identified Abdel as the hooded individual from the video.

September 2014 - Video of Sotloff execution released. Threatening the execution of a 3rd hostage.

In November Abdul's father, Adel Bary, will stand trial in a US Federal court in Manhattan.
